Here is the updated design document. This revision completely changes the architecture so that the Python script acts as an "invisible logic engine" (a state machine).

Because your Rust game handles the HTML/CSS UI (likely using a framework like Tauri, Dioxus, or a webview), the Python script will run as a continuous background process during the negotiation, communicating back and forth with the Rust main game using JSON over stdin and stdout.

You can pass this updated prompt to your AI developer:

System Prompt & Design Specification: Sponsor Negotiation Logic Engine
Target AI Persona: You are an expert Python developer who specializes in game mechanics, state machines, and Inter-Process Communication (IPC) between Rust and Python.

Task: Write a Python script (sponsor_negotiator.py) that acts as the logic engine for a "Sponsor Negotiation" plugin. The main game is written in Rust and uses an HTML/CSS frontend for the user interface.

Therefore, this Python script must not render any UI or use terminal input(). Instead, it will run as a persistent subprocess, reading JSON actions from stdin (sent by Rust) and printing JSON state updates to stdout (for Rust to render in HTML/CSS).

Please build the application based on the following architectural and gameplay specifications.

1. CLI Initialization & IPC Setup
The Rust program will spawn this Python script as a subprocess when the player enters the "Sponsor Negotiation" screen.

Initialization: The script should accept initial player stats via CLI arguments using argparse (including a --help flag for documentation).

--exp (int): Player's overall experience points.

--results (int): Player's recent performance score (0-100).

--charisma (int): Player's current charisma stat.

--has-agent (bool): Whether the player employs an agent.

--agent-level (int): Level of the agent (0 if no agent, 1-10).

The Event Loop: After parsing arguments and determining the initial state, the script must enter a while True: loop, waiting for sys.stdin.readline(). It will process the player's choice, update the game state, and print the new state as a single-line JSON object to sys.stdout (followed by sys.stdout.flush()).

2. Phase 1: The Offer Engine (Matchmaking)
Upon startup, the script calculates the initial state before waiting for input.

Mechanic: Calculate an Attraction Score based on --results, --exp, and --agent-level.

Logic:

High Attraction: 1-3 Sponsors approach the player.

Low Attraction: Player must "cold call" sponsors (starts with a disadvantage).

First Output: The script immediately prints a JSON payload detailing the available sponsors and the opening dialogue, so the Rust UI can render the first HTML screen.

3. Phase 2: The Negotiation Mini-Game (State Machine)
This is the core loop. It mixes Monkey Island dialogue puzzles, Pokémon elemental weaknesses, and D&D dice rolls.

Entities & Mechanics:
Player/Agent: Has "Leverage" (HP).

Sponsor Corp: Has "Skepticism" (Defense/HP).

Turn-Based Combat: Python sends the Sponsor's dialogue and a list of available player_options to Rust. The user clicks a button in the HTML UI. Rust sends the chosen option's ID back to Python via stdin.

Attacks/Defenses:

Aggressive Pitch: High damage to Skepticism, risks Leverage.

Charm: Uses Charisma to lower Skepticism.

Rebuttals (Monkey Island): Sponsor makes a specific objection. The player must choose the logically correct rebuttal from their options.

RNG (D20 System): Every action includes a hidden roll (1-100 or 1-20).

Crit Success: Instant win, max money.

Crit Failure: Immediate termination, penalty to charisma.

4. JSON Communication Protocol
The script must strictly adhere to this JSON format for stdout so the Rust HTML/CSS frontend can render it easily.

From Python to Rust (State Update):

JSON
{
  "status": "ONGOING", 
  "sponsor_name": "MegaCorp Racing",
  "sponsor_dialogue": "Your crash rate is a bit high. Why should we risk our brand?",
  "player_leverage": 80,
  "sponsor_skepticism": 50,
  "player_options": [
    {"id": "opt_1", "text": "[Charm] I push cars to the absolute limit for the fans."},
    {"id": "opt_2", "text": "[Logic] Look at the recent results, the pace is undeniable."}
  ],
  "last_action_log": "You smiled charmingly. The sponsor seems slightly less tense."
}
From Rust to Python (Player Action over stdin):

JSON
{
  "action_id": "opt_1"
}
From Python to Rust (Game Over / Resolution):

JSON
{
  "status": "SIGNED | BANNED | REJECTED",
  "base_pay": 50000,
  "bonus_multiplier": 1.2,
  "stat_changes": {
    "charisma": -1
  },
  "final_log": "You pushed too hard. MegaCorp walked out of the room."
}
(Once a resolution JSON is sent, the Python script should gracefully exit (sys.exit(0)).

5. Implementation Steps for the AI Developer
Setup & Imports: Use argparse, json, random, and sys.

Define the CLI: Implement argparse to handle the initial stats from Rust.

Define Sponsor Data: Create mock sponsors with different starting Skepticism and preferred dialogue types.

Build the IPC Loop:

Generate the initial state and print(json.dumps(initial_state)); sys.stdout.flush().

Enter a while True: loop. Read from sys.stdin.readline().

Parse the incoming JSON. Apply the logic, roll the dice, adjust Leverage/Skepticism.

Check for win/loss states. If the game continues, output the next "ONGOING" JSON state. If it ends, output the final resolution JSON and break.

Strict Output: Ensure absolutely no print() statements are used for debugging unless they are directed to sys.stderr. Standard output (stdout) must be 100% clean JSON.
